1.What is Git?
a) A database
b) A programming language
c) A version control system
d) A compiler


2.Which command is used to create a new Git repository?
a) git start
b) git create
c) git init
d) git repo

3.Which command is used to check the current state of the repository?
a) git status
b) git check
c) git current
d) git log

4.Which command stages all changes in the working directory?
a) git update
b) git add .
c) git commit
d) git push

5.What does git clone do?
a) Initializes a new repository
b) Deletes a branch
c) Creates a copy of a repository
d) Merges branches

6.Which command shows the commit history?
a) git history
b) git commits
c) git log
d) git show

7.Which file is used to ignore specific files or folders in Git?
a) .gitconfig
b) .gitignore
c) .gitkeep
d) .githide

8.What is the purpose of git pull?
a) Upload local changes
b) Merge branches
c) Download and merge changes from remote
d) Revert changes

9.How do you create a new branch in Git?
a) git create branch newbranch
b) git new branch newbranch
c) git branch newbranch
d) git switch -c newbranch

10.What does git diff do?
a) Shows all branches
b) Shows changed files
c) Shows differences between commits or working tree
d) Lists ignored files

11.What is HEAD in Git?
a) A backup pointer
b) A reference to the latest tag
c) A pointer to the current branch reference
d) A file that stores commit messages

12.Which command undoes the last commit but keeps the changes staged?
a) git reset --hard HEAD~1
b) git reset --soft HEAD~1
c) git revert HEAD
d) git commit --amend

13.How to delete a local branch in Git?
a) git branch -r branchname
b) git delete branch branchname
c) git branch -d branchname
d) git remove branchname

14.What does git stash do?
a) Saves current changes and clears working directory
b) Deletes old commits
c) Backs up entire repository
d) Creates a new branch

15.What is a fast-forward merge?
a) Merge that deletes files
b) Merge that requires conflict resolution
c) Merge that moves the branch pointer without creating a new commit
d) Merge that reverses changes

16.What does the command git fetch do?
a) Downloads and merges updates from a remote branch
b) Updates the remote branch
c) Downloads changes from the remote but doesn't merge them
d) Creates a new branch from remote


17.Which command re-applies commits from one branch onto another branch?
a) git merge
b) git pull
c) git rebase
d) git clone


18.What happens when you use git stash pop?
a) Deletes all stashed changes
b) Applies the last stashed changes and removes them from the stash list
c) Lists all stashes
d) Applies all stashes

19.Which command is used to list all configured remotes?
a) git show-remote
b) git remote -v
c) git list remotes
d) git remotes

20.What is the correct way to resolve merge conflicts?
a) Restart the repository
b) Delete the repository and start over
c) Manually edit the conflicting files, then commit
d) Use git fix

21.What does git revert do?
a) Resets the repository to a previous state
b) Creates a new commit that undoes changes from a specific commit
c) Deletes the last commit
d) Erases commit history

22.How do you rename a branch in Git (while on another branch)?
a) git branch rename oldname newname
b) git rename oldname newname
c) git branch -m oldname newname
d) git mv oldname newname

23.Which file stores Git configuration specific to the current repository?
a) .gitignore
b) .git/config
c) .gitrepo
d) .config/git

24.What is the effect of git reset --hard?
a) Removes tracked files permanently
b) Undoes local commits and resets files in working directory
c) Unstages all changes but keeps working directory intact
d) Deletes your Git history


25.You cloned a repository and want to create a new branch and start working. What’s the correct sequence?
a) git checkout new-feature
b) git branch new-feature && git checkout new-feature
c) git checkout -b new-feature
d) Both b and c are correct

26.What does the -u flag mean in git push -u origin feature-branch?
a) Push as upstream without committing
b) Set the upstream (tracking) branch
c) Undo last push
d) Update remote repo


27.What is the main difference between git pull and git fetch?
a) git pull is faster
b) git pull only updates tags
c) git fetch downloads but doesn’t merge
d) git fetch deletes old branches

28.Which of the following actions will remove a file from the Git repository and your working directory?
a) git rm file.txt
b) git reset file.txt
c) git ignore file.txt
d) rm file.txt

29.After resolving a merge conflict, what is the correct next step?
a) git stash
b) git rebase --continue
c) git add <file> and git commit
d) git checkout --theirs































1.✅ Answer: c) A version control system
2.✅ Answer: c) git init
3.✅ Answer: a) git status
4.✅ Answer: b) git add .
5.✅ Answer: c) Creates a copy of a repository
6.✅ Answer: c) git log
7.✅ Answer: b) .gitignore
8.✅ Answer: c) Download and merge changes from remote
9.✅ Answer: c) git branch newbranch
10.✅ Answer: c) Shows differences between commits or working tree
11.✅ Answer: c) A pointer to the current branch reference
12.✅ Answer: b) git reset --soft HEAD~1
13.✅ Answer: c) git branch -d branchname
14.✅ Answer: a) Saves current changes and clears working directory
15.✅ Answer: c) Merge that moves the branch pointer without creating a new commit
16.✅ Answer: c) Downloads changes from the remote but doesn't merge them
17.✅ Answer: c) git rebase
18.✅ Answer: b) Applies the last stashed changes and removes them from the stash list
19.✅ Answer: b) git remote -v
20.✅ Answer: c) Manually edit the conflicting files, then commit
21.✅ Answer: b) Creates a new commit that undoes changes from a specific commit
22.✅ Answer: c) git branch -m oldname newname
23.✅ Answer: b) .git/config
24.✅ Answer: b) Undoes local commits and resets files in working directory
25.✅ Answer: d) Both b and c are correct
26.✅ Answer: b) Set the upstream (tracking) branch
27.✅ Answer: c) git fetch downloads but doesn’t merge
28.✅ Answer: a) git rm file.txt
29.✅ Answer: c) git add <file> and git commit