Let’s see the possible test cases for Gmail Inbox functionality.

Verify that all the read and unread emails are displayed in the inbox
Verify that the recently received email or unread emails are highlighted in bold in the Inbox section.
Verify that the recently received email has correct sender‘s name or email id, subject of the email, its preview and date or time.
Verifty that the recently received email’s sender’s name or email id, subject of the email, and date or time should be in bold and preivew text shouldn’t be in bold.
Verfiy that the attachment icon is displayed next to the preview text of the email, if the email has any attachment.
Verify that the Archive, Delete, Mark as read, Snooze options are displaying on hovering the unread email.
Verify that the Archive, Delete, Mark as unread, Snooze options are displaying on hovering the read email.
Verify that the Email id, Add to contacts, Open detailed view, Send email, Send message, Start video call, Schedule event options are displaying when we hover on the name/email of the read/unread email.
Verify that the user is navigated to the email content when clicking on the email in the inbox.
Verify that the content of the email is displayed correctly without any formatting issues.
Verify that the attachment in the email is downloadable or not.
Verify that the attachments can be downloaded as a single zip file.
Verify that the attachments can be downloaded individually.
Verify that the attachments can be viewable in the browser itself without downlading.
Verify that the attachment is downloading in zip format, if the attachment size is more than 1 MB.
Verify that the attachments are scanned for viruses once we try to download the file.
Verify that the Reply and Forward buttons are displaying in the bottom of the email content.
Verify that all the read emails are not highlighted.
Verify that unread emails count is displayed beside ‘Inbox’ text in the left sidebar of Gmail.
Verify that unread emails count is increased as per the number of new emails we received.
Verify that the unread emails count is increased when we mark an email as unread.
Verify that the unread emails count is decreased when we mark an email as read or opened.
Verify that email recipients in CC are visible to all the users whose emails are present.
Verify that email recipients in BCC are not visible to other users in the TO, CC or BCC section.
Verify that email can be received from other domains like Hotmail, Outlook, Yahoomail or any other company domains